---
layout: journal.hbs
transparent-header: true
meta-page: true
---

# Contact
####Postal
Geebird&Bamby GmbH<br>
Muellerstr. 1<br>
65183 Wiesbaden<br>
Germany

####E-Mail
mail@geebirdandbamby.com

####Responsible for contents according to §5 TMD
Robert G. Achtel

####VAT ID / Ust.-Id.
DE281553898

####Trade Register
HRB 26112 Wiesbaden, DE

# Privacy Policy

##1.Scope

The information provided by Geebird&Bamby GmbH (“Geebird&Bamby,” “we,” “us” or “our”) on http://www.geebirdandbamby.com (“website”) is for general informational purposes only. By using this website, any of its features or functionality associated with Geebird&Bamby, you consent to the collection, use, processing, and sharing of your information as described in this Privacy Policy.

##2. Information on the Website

We make no representation or warranty of any kind, express or implied, regarding the accuracy, adequacy, validity, reliability, availability or completeness of any information on the website. Under no circumstance shall we have any liability to you for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of the use of the website or reliance on any information provided on the website. Your use of the website and your reliance on any information on the website is solely at your own risk.

##3. Data Privacy

When visiting our website, some information, such as the site that referred you to us and your IP address may be collected automatically as part of the website’s operation. This information may be used to personalize the website to your particular interests. When ordering or registering on this website, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your name, e-mail address, mailing address, phone number, credit card information or other details. We collect this information when you place an order or register for our newsletter. All information you supply is encrypted via Secure Socket Layer (SSL) technology. All transactions are processed through a gateway provider (FoxyCart, Brentwood, TN) and are not stored or processed on our servers. We do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. Your mailing address, telephone number and e-mail will, however, be transferred to the commissioned shipping company if required. As a website operating out of Germany, our management of your data is compliant to the German Teleservices Act (Telemediengesetz).

##4. Use of Cookies

We use cookies when you visit our site, including website functionality cookies and customer preference cookies. By using our site, you agree to us placing these sorts of cookies on your device and accessing them when you visit the site in the future.  If you want to delete any cookies that are already on your computer, the “help” section in your browser should provide instructions on how to locate the file or directory that stores cookies. Further information about cookies can be found at https://goo.gl/JGRhYD. Please note that by deleting or disabling future cookies, your user experience may be affected and you might not be able to take advantage of certain functions of our website.

##5. Use of Google Analytics

We uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies", which are text files placed on your computer to help the website analyse how visitors use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above. You can prevent Google’s collection and use of data (cookies and IP address) by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available under https://goo.gl/77yP5N. Please note that this website initializes Google Analytics with the setting "anonymizeIp“. This guarantees anonymized data collection by masking the last part of your IP address.
Further information concerning the terms and conditions of use and data privacy can be found at https://goo.gl/t9y89Q or at https://goo.gl/WMcR4Z.

##6.External Links

Although our website may include links providing direct access to other Internet resources, including websites, we are not responsible for the accuracy or content of information contained in these sites.


